accessing data from a file.
Ah,
file is consists of some kind of data right there.
It has,
ah lot of information inside,
and you need to pull that information every now and then.
Now,
that file could be any file that could be application file,
database files,
a simple text file,
a log file,
any kind of while that you try to retrieve some data,
massage the data and you want to view it the way you want to.
Now,
you could do that manually by running commands,
adding commands here and there every day.
But of course,
if you are doing that,
changing off data are running those commands every day.
Then this task doing a manual become tedious.
So the best thing to do is to automate that and the way you automated.
You actually create a shell script to do that.
So in this lesson,
we are going to create the first grip level poll errors,
failures or warnings,
or any kind of information that you want to pull from a file.
So most likely we will be using,
like our log messaging file,
which has,
which is a huge fall which gets,
which actually logs all the error messages or warnings of failures or many other ah system
related messages in a file.
But sometimes when you want to view that while you don't want to go through all that stuff
,
that information stuff or something that is not related or it's not,
um,
actually what you're looking for So this is the first script it'll go into and create a
script.
The second script that I wanted to cover is then you actually have some of the
administrative commands that you run and then you want to change.
Um,
the output of the file and perhaps output toe a different ball said this way,
Every time you come in,
it's viewable by,
um,
and you whenever you run the command.
So let's look at our first.
I'm gonna log into my Lennox machine party client.
I'm logged in as myself,
and I am in my home directory.
Now I want you to copy Ah,
war log messages from war log to your current directory.
Now,
what is your current directory?
You contract is home.
I have salt.
I want you to go ahead and create a new directory and call it,
um,
Sessional scripts This is the name you have chosen.
Maybe you add all our new newly created scripts into this directory.
And when I do ls minus l to you are You will see the bottom.
It has that directory now.
I wanted to copy noir log messages,
file into my current directory,
and there would be dot and you hit enter.
Okay,
You say it's coming up as permission Denied.
Why?
Because war log messages file is owned by room and it is not.
It does not have read permission for anyone else.
So what we will do is will become route.
And now I will copy war log messages.
So I'm doing CD war log messages to my home directory.
And from there I will copy it to professional scripts.
Now it is copied.
Now let's go to my home.
I have salt professional scripts directory and let's see,
the file is there.
Okay,
good.
So now,
in order for me to read that file,
it should have the right read permissions right here.
So what I'll do is I will go ahead.
And first of all,
I'll change the ownership filed.
C h mod.
I have solved messages own bill.
Okay,
I think it's changed.
Ma messages file toe.
All right.
Oh,
no.
Sorry.
I'm using change mine.
It has to be changed ownership because we're changing the ownership.
Okay,
it has changed.
Now you'll see when we make this a little.
Now you will see this file messages fall is owned by I have salt.
Now I'm going to change the group as well as a change group.
I,
um,
have saw two messages,
and now you will see I should be able to read this file so I could have assigned the read
permissions right here of a change model.
Or I just have given the ownership a change.
The ownership too.
I have.
So So now I could exit out of room.
Rich,
dark human.
I am in slash home.
I have soul.
I'm gonna go into my professional scripts directory ls minus lt r.
And there it has the messages.
Now,
to make sure I could read it,
I could just simply cat the messages follow just to make sure I created Yes,
I could read Clear the screen.
Now I'm gonna create first scrip called Cool date.
If you are using different scripting as Well,
I'll put dot Basha here.
Well,
just literally pulled the and her.
Now what do you do?
First thing you give correct shells.
Sorry.
The shell,
which has been bashed next,
you know.
Hello there,
Date general.
A slash 08 slash 2020 description.
This scrip will whom Onley error messages from war log messages.
You could directly pull those messages,
but you have to be rude,
but since,
um,
be in a room,
Um,
it's just example that I'm giving the copy.
The messages fall in a local and home and modified if it is modified.
Since we're greeting for the first time Totally the same date.
Okay,
So our basic things are done.
Shell is defined,
the comments are defined.
Now,
what are exactly be doing?
We wanted to pull Onley error messages from the messages follow.
You don't want to view anything.
So to do that,
we'll have to do cause we are groping for error messages.
Minus I is to ignore or case case ever from where I would always specify absolute path.
You don't want to specify the relative pat because if you're running from another directory
,
this same scribble failed.
I have so professional scripts.
So for now,
just run that and just make sure works control.
Um,
quit right quick.
And it Now,
the next thing you have to do is give executed permission to pull data.
This mind sell TR and you'll see our first script is created.
So when I run that pull data it say's grip home I have salt is a directory,
huh?
Because we did not specify the file.
You need to go in one step inside.
So pull data.
And we actually trying to grab for errors from directory.
So of course,
there is no such thing is Dark doesn't have the data.
He only has filed,
so we'll put messages.
Okay.
Now,
when we run this script,
it is giving us on Lee the error messages all the far all the lines inside of that bar log
messaging file.
I'm Onley getting the error messages now.
Probably thinking Why do we need just a room messages?
Well,
if you are in corporate environment,
trust me.
You gonna be troubleshooting system related application related so many times that you
would have to go into the log files and look for her messages that where it failed,
so you could go through 19 by line by line,
which is gonna take you forever.
Or you could just simply fill their out for our messages.
And then you will get right to the point that why and how it is failing.
Now,
there are some field messages right here.
Of course,
we're not troubleshooting these field messages,
but it is just an example that I'm giving now.
Every time you come in,
you log into your system,
your manager or your ah,
someone from the development team or someone who say,
Hey,
I'm getting our message from this system or system is running slower.
This applications failing or something.
So you just all you have to do is run the script and see what are those Air messages?
Four.
So what I will do at this point,
I will instead of do pull data,
I will rename this file to move pull data to pull errors.
So this way it is Pacific to,
um the data are the words that you're tryingto so let's run again.
Full errors.
And now we have errors.
Similarly,
if he wanted to,
um,
pull all the warning messages,
we could do the same thing.
But instead of creative recreating a new script,
what I'll do is I'll copy pull data off.
Sorry,
pulled errors and I'll name it Cool warning.
So now I have two scripts.
One is pull errors and the other one is pulled warnings.
But now both heart.
Same.
So I have to go into the pull warn Sign quit and I'll have to instead of error put in
Warren.
No save now Let's run pulled Warne now and you will see you have a lot of warning signs in
the system.
What's going on?
Um see,
right here is warning application genome settings killed by signal five or any of the
things that happened with the application of your system,
it will be logged here now.
The last one I will do is this.
Copy it again.
Pull!
Ah,
warn I will do.
Pull.
All right,
now feel.
Look,
I'll go into field trip again instead of warn.
I'll just do failed now I had three scripts to verify.
It did.
The last one is pulled fail.
So let's run,
pull,
fail!
And now it's on Lee giving me failed related lines,
anything that has failed in the line.
I will only get dad now.
You could also leave it as is right now if you want to.
But most the time of people do is they put this to another file.
So this way they could easily minute police text inside of them file instead of just going
into the war log messages.
So how that is done,
you could just let's go back to our first group,
which is pull.
And here I will go group minus.
I are,
and I will output to my home directory and directory.
And now I will name the output off the script as output ever.
If you notice I have to.
Slash is here.
So I'm gonna get rid of one.
So now let's run it now.
This time and you run it,
it is not going to show you all those error messages on the screen.
Instead,
it is going to push out all the messages that came with the word error it's gonna go into
ah,
file that be just specified.
So let's run pool era and you see,
you got your prom back so it doesn't mean it didn't run.
It did,
Ron,
But has created a fire that you wanted to create.
They go see output error.
So now you could have simply cat out this up put air file and read through it the same way
you could do it where the fail the same way you could do with warning if you want to.
Now,
also,
what happened is which I will also cover later on that many system administrators.
What they do is they schedule this type off scripts in Cron job.
They tell the Cron job,
run this group at certain times of the day,
and when you come in you all you have to do is view that file that's one step further.
Now,
if you want to take it another step further,
what it will do is it will not only run the script.
It would also send the output off the script,
which is the help put Dash air file through your email through the Sendmail Protocol,
which is one of the best ways you could do that.
When you come into your office in the morning and the first thing you do,
you open up your email and you say,
Hey,
I got these emails and alerts that saying I had this type.
Our message is so this is about,
um,
creating a pulling data from files.
You could also modify it in terms off if you want to just see the number of warnings could
just do pull warning.
Do you see when you run it,
you get all those messages Now you could use your own script and combine it Web operating
system commands to view or to change the output.
The script.
If you want to see how many warning messages or lines we have and me grip for warning,
you could just do pipe W C minus l.
And you'll see there are total off 46 warning messages.
This shows that since we have the system,
we have,
ah,
46 warning messages that came in you could be more Pacific.
So if you want to just do correct and coat and you just wanted to do August 27 then ever
Onley pull August 27 warning messages and how many we have for August 27.
You have 46 so basically all those messages that have came in today anyway,
So this is how you pull data This is how you modify the second script I wanted to go over
is script that before Matt output of the administrative commands that stood administrative
commands.
Um,
plus,
I'm gonna create a new script,
call admin commands and hit Enter,
and I will go through again because this is something that you really need to know.
There description of the script format,
the output off admin commands.
And the last one has modified.
Please don't get annoyed by this because I'm keep typing that the reason I do that is
because I really want you to get in the habit off doing that.
This shows that you are an organized,
um,
engineer administrator who actually organized his or her scripts and put all the scripts in
the right way.
So 20.
Okay,
now what other commands that we want to do?
Um,
let's do some administrator commands like date time,
um,
and DF minus h.
So let's say if I want to do that and let's say you run it before we run it,
we have to give execute herbal permissions and now gonna be run it.
You'll see.
I have date right here up time and the d F minus cape.
Now when I mean to format the output,
you could do that by either You run the script and formatted in a way like,
let's say,
if you only wanted to view the first Harlem off your scrip,
then you will only see like Monday.
Ah,
the date of time on file systems are that's if you want to change the format,
Um,
after you run this or you could go into the script,
the script,
a Zvi I admin commands and you could go into date and you could do talk print dollar one up
time you could do look,
print dollar,
let's say three.
And for the DF minus H little just gripped for room.
So this is how we change the output off the commands.
Now,
when we run it,
you'll see the first column it gave us Monday.
The second column is a date,
and that there is defiance.
H I just wanted to know on Lee the route station how much this space I have,
how much I have left.
I don't care for other,
uh,
file system.
So this is how you make changes to it?
Um,
same way there are so many commands that we learned earlier.
If you want to change the admin commands on you wanted to format it,
you could try with different commands.
And this is how basically we could access the data from files.